Jesus teaching reached the heart.
Luke 2432 records the reaction of some of his disciples following a teaching session,
or not our hearts burning within us as he was speaking to us on the road
as he was fully opening up the scriptures to us.
When we teach, how can we reach the heart?
We can, one, use rhetorical questions to help our listeners think,
two, urge listeners to examine why they perform good works,
and three, highlight how Bible principles and commands reflect God's qualities and is love for us.
In the following example, does the speaker help the audience to make a self-examination?
What's one thing you must do to gain everlasting life?
At Matthew 1921, Jesus said to a rich young ruler,
go sell your belongings and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven, and come be my follower.
Clearly, you must cut out of your life anything that interferes with your worship of Jehovah.
Were the words accurate?
Yes, were you moved from the heart? Probably not.
Although the speaker told us what we needed to do, he didn't help us to examine our own feelings on the matter.
Let's watch him try again.
What's one thing we must do to gain everlasting life?
At Matthew 1921, we find Jesus' response to this question as posed by a rich young ruler.
Go sell your belongings and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven, and come be my follower.
Although this man had kept the commandments of the mosaic law since his youth, Jesus detected that something was missing.
Each of us does well to ask himself, what might Jesus detect about me?
Although Jehovah doesn't expect me to part with all of my belongings, is there anything in my life that interferes with my worship?
Does my job prevent me from attending congregation meetings?
Do I catch myself thinking about material things when I'm engaged in sacred service?
Material things may be valuable, but are they worth more than my everlasting life?
Well done.
The rhetorical questions helped us to examine ourselves.
Also, instead of using the personal pronoun you, the speaker showed respect for his audience by including himself as one who needs to apply the counsel of God's Word.
In order to reach the heart, we must also appeal to good motives.
In other words, we should motivate our audience to act because they love Jehovah, fellow humans, and Bible teachings.
Does the Bible teacher do that in the following demonstration?
The question asks, what do we need to avoid?
Bad habits like smoking and abusing alcohol and drugs.
That's right, but I noticed you're still smoking.
So, what do you need to do?
I know I need a quit, but it's not easy.
Well, we've been studying for over a year.
How much more time do you need?
How much time do you think is left before the end comes?
Did the teacher appeal to proper motives?
No. Instead, he tried to pressure and shame the student.
Let's watch a better way to motivate.
The question asks, what do we need to avoid?
Bad habits like smoking and abusing alcohol and drugs.
That's right. Of course, it's not always easy to give up bad habits.
But what can be a powerful motivator?
Well, I've got to stop smoking so I won't be destroyed at Armageddon.
Actually, there's a stronger motivation.
Why do you get up early every day to go to work?
To provide for my family.
I do it because I love them.
Exactly.
In the same way, strong love for Jehovah can help you to break habits in order to please him.
And what does he provide that can help you win the battle against smoking?
Holy Spirit? Yes.
Anytime you have the urge to smoke, you can freely call on Jehovah for his hope to resist.
Let's now consider five Bible principles that will help you further.
Not only did the teacher appeal to good motives, but he also helped the student to think about how he could please Jehovah.
When we do our best to reach the heart of our listeners, we'll be appealing to the best of motives.
Love for God.
Love for Jehovah. We'll move them to draw close to him and become his friends.
He will motivate them to praise him not just for a short time, but for all eternity.